BS Mining Engineering Program  
Student Outcomes  

Upon graduation, the students should be able to:  

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome a: Apply knowledge of mathematics, natural science, engineering fundamentals and an 
engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome b: Conduct investigations of complex engineering problems using research-based 
knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and 
interpretation of data, and synthesis of information to provide valid conclusions.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome c: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design systems, components or 
processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health 
and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome d: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams and in 
multi-disciplinary settings.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome e: Identify, formulate, research literature and analyze complex engineering problems 
reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural 
sciences and engineering sciences.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome f: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and 
norms of engineering practice.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome g: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering 
community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write 
effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and 
receive clear instructions.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome h: Understand and evaluate the sustainability and impact of professional engineering work 
in the solution of complex engineering problems in societal and environmental context.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome i: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent 
and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome j: Apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, 
legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional 
engineering practice and solutions to complex engineering problems.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome k: Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering 
and IT tools, including prediction and modelling, to complex engineering problems with 
an understanding of the limitations.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome l: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of engineering management principles and 
economic decision-making and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader 
in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.

BS Mining Engineering Program Student Outcome m: Practice Christian values in their personal and professional endeavors as Louisians in the 
service of the CICM mission.
